2025-06-29-12-33-24-UTC-plus-2-neetcodeIO-resource-titled--microservices-are-technical-debt.txt



source:
    (
    yt
    >>
    NeetCodeIO
    >>
    Microservices are Technical Debt
    )



transcript:

    ... my short

    experience at Google made me realize that well if they have all this tooling already set up and they have like a

    large team of dedicated sres that are handling all of this it's probably worth it at that point to ... stick with

    microservices there's really no need to simplify like the architecture cuz we really didn't have to worry about those

    kind of issues like those latency things - all that was abstracted away from us



    Google has very mature tooling ...;
    they've been they've been at this for longer than basically anybody[,]
    so you would ... expect that their stuff works really well ...;
    but also you probably can't take what happens at Google and right infer too much about
    how to ... make that be advice for anyone else;

    I ... really wanted to stick to ...
        why would you take your monolithic application - doesn't really matter what language is written in -
        where there's a single Deployable artifact
        (
        like one big binary,
        one big ball of Python code, ...
        it's ... one thing [and], inside of it, the modules talk to each other by making function calls
        )
        and,
        when you want to change it, you just deploy the whole thing ...

        what would make you ever want to do a microservice - or I hate the word «microservice», honestly - ...
        what would ever want you to introduce the idea of making gpc's or rpc's network calls
        instead of function calls? ...

    ... I think that the answer usually works out like this:

        you're cruising along in your monolith and everything's fine and then your company ... starts to get

        bigger ..., your development team starts to get bigger, ... maybe your user base gets bigger, but ... the scaling of the traffic is not - I don't think - an issue

            I think it's often cited as a reason to do [micro]services

            ... I don't think it should be ...
            if it is ... that[,] there's probably something very specific about that environment

            but:

                ... there are very high-scale monoliths out there

        ... what probably starts to happen is:
        you have a lot of people[;]
        all while work on the same thing[;]
        then they start stepping on each other not while writing the code

            while rolling it out[,] you got to roll it out;
            you cannot just flip the switch 
            [b/c] in this day and age you never turn your software off

            [in] traditional software engineering texts [have concepts such as] «maintenance windows» or whatever;
            [but] it's like not of this era




        I think this is the reason to do [micro]services ...:
            you have a large engineering team
            and
            people are stepping on each other because you're changing it a lot


    ... you can imagine other examples of ... why it would be worth talking over the network

        ...

    ...I would say like some surprising things that I think

        that that I learned about this is like I actually think I think I've I've been fond of saying this to to my to my

        colleagues who who all kind of groan when I say it now but um I think microservices are technical debt and I
        Microservices are tech debt

        say that intentionally because in in that I do think that they help you move faster at

        first I think if you're you're you got a bunch of code running one place and somebody says you know what why don't

    ...


    I know a

    lot of a lot of microservices theory talks about
        like loose coupling
        and
        "oh what about fallbacks?"
        and "does everything have to be up?" and "if everything has to be up, then you've made a distributed monolith"

            it's ... not an useful thing to say, I think,
            because like I think everyone - to a certain extent - makes a distributed monolith
            unless you really aggressively do fault injection - like really aggressively

            I think ... most people have a distributed monolith - whether they realize it or not

    none of the companies that I've worked for have ever made anything other than a distributed monolith either -
    like: all the things have to be up, they just have to be up!

    and so
    you could say "well, you shouldn't do microservices!"
    (and maybe maybe you shouldn't);
    more importantly though, do recognize that
    they are technical debt [- in a genuinely positive sense! -
    b/c] they [can help a group of collaborating teams] move faster for a time

    it's not ... black or white;
        it's not like "oh, microservices are bad!";

        you've got something in exchange ... for your debt;
        [but recognize that] you [have] borrowed against someone else's productivity in the future



        my colleague Chris Meikle John ... has this phrase ... that he where ... calls microservices «a socio-technical problem»

            if it was purely technical, you would just ... do a good design [or] do a different design

            but ... there are people motivation;
            someone wants to get you know this product shipped right away
            and
            they don't care what happens next year - they just want to ship it right now;

    ...



    I sent you a couple of links here

        one is to ... Chris Meikle John's PhD thesis
        which he did on microservices ... based on research that he did at door Dash ...
        which is where he talks about the sort of social technical problem

        ... also I also dropped you a link to a talk that I gave in 2016
        ... where I suggest what might come after microservices
        ...



    Was it worth it for Doordash

        I think people would be upset if I didn't ask this question:
        when it came to that migration,
        was it worth it to kind of go into the microservices direction
        or
        is it more complicated than that in that
            it helped you initially but now maybe you're kind of paying that tax
            or
            have you already paid that tax and now you know it's just smooth sailing from here?
        what's kind of the situation right now?

        ... that's a really good question ...
        DoorDash _had to_ do it ...
            they just ... couldn't ... move any faster with their monolith architecture

            theoretically possible
            [and]
            with enough time,
            they could have
                rearchitectured the monolith
                and
                found ways to let more people work on it at the same time
                (

                =
                found  ways of chopping it up and saying ...
                "this is the monolith for you people, this is the monolith for you people"
                ...
                maybe the consumer browsing is one separate monolith
                and
                the driver assignment is different
                )

        ... you could imagine dividing it up into some chunks

        ... they actually
        actually did do some of that ... but even so it was actually still the same code
        because
            there's all this ... shared code
            ... and
            the test suite was taking forever to run
        and ... you know ...
            it needed a major re-architecture
            and
            they didn't have time
            (
                ...
                they needed to add features,
                fix bugs,
                and do stuff
            )

        where are we now?

        ... I don't know ...
        there's no more monolith ...
        and
        ... we have hundreds of services - 500, I think
        (you need about ... 100 to ... place an order and get it delivered)



        ... was it worth it?
        ... of course it was worth it
        because ... the monolith was grinding to its death

            ... no one knew how to fix it in enough time

        so ... it was worth it because ... DoorDash still exists



        ... had I joined the company sooner,
        I might have tried to steer us into some like slightly different directions

            but ... it solved the problem
            ...
            it made it so ... the company ... could keep growing

            but at the same time ... we learned just a ton, a ton, a ton about ...
                what are the hard Parts about microservices
                and
                stuff that we talked about in the blog post
            but it's really - it's all that socio technical problems ...



                we realize this problem ...
                if everyone would just please upgrade their grpc client ...
                then we can fix this weird interaction that we have sometimes

                but there's very little incentive for people to want to ... go upgrade their grpc clients
                or
                pick ... your other library

    

                ... now you've got 500 individual things
                that are running some version of some set of dependencies defined by somebody somewhere
                and
                then ... you want to say ...
                    """
                    we really want you to go in and change your code to this ...
                    the API is different we need you to get down this new dependency...
                    like, it'd be really great if you did, you know?
                    """
                like it's kind of hard to justify



        if I were to give people advice I would say "use as ` as possible"

        ... like
            are we stepping on each other?
            okay, fine - ... split it out then

            ... that is, I think very, reasonable

        [BUT] not just
            """
            oh by my domain driven design ideas,
            the consumer service shouldn't know about
            the something something piece of data[,]
            therefore it should be a separate service
            """



            because what you have I I'll
            ... you have all these philosophical arguments about how what's the right way to do microservices
            and
            next thing you know you have 500 services and a thousand way «fan-out» ... on average ...

    Programming Principles

    interesting and honestly I have one question for you and maybe this will be a little bit ... controversial but I

        think what you're saying kind of reminds me of how many times like programmers have this kind of like philosophy

        they're kind of reading off like a Bible and like everything has to be done this way ...

        there are some interesting that people say like you know when it comes to let's say like unit testing or like object oriented programming which you know some people

        have like their opinions on

        but obviously ... "the context matters"

            ... you could say that this is a principle and ... it shall never be broken

            but if ... the context of the problem is ... dictating that
            ... the solution is just more simple to do it this [other] way
            or
            maybe we just don't need all these unit tests
            or
            the unit tests aren't actually helpful at all

            I'm not against unit tests or anything like that


    yeah ... your overall question is

        are there just these ideas that programmers have that that they stick to they're not exactly sure why and perhaps

        they stick to them at their detriment um and the example you CED is is test 100%



        um yeah a example of that is that you know the thing I talked about about like oh you have to have that as a separate

        service because that's how you do microservices um testing is a fascinating topic I am I I too am not

        against writing tests they have saved me many times um

        but ... tests have a

        curious way of making some changes harder because they kind of ...

        solidify the way a thing works and you might look at doing something and you know that it would be right to kind of

        refactor something move it around you're like oh man I'm gonna have to rewrite all these tests and this is another socio-technical problem but[,] ... in projects that have

        a lot of tests[,] it tends to encourage uh people to work around the fact that the

        they just want to keep the test suite working
        and
        not necessarily get the best architecture

        also test coverage - ... I am _deeply_ frustrated with this as ... a metric of performance
        because all that really matters is your assertions

            you can have 100% coverage and just say "assert one equals one"

            ...
            but there's no way to measure assertion quality
            and I actually kind of wish there was

            because if there was a way I think I would be on board with you should probably have some amount of you

            know tests that with quality assertions but lacking any way of measuring the

            quality of your assertions I think it's kind of silly to chase to chase test coverage numbers but but we do ... it's my personal opinion

            

            we of course say "oh no no - it's very important that you have test coverage!"
            and it tends to be that
            people also when they're in there making their test they __tend__ to have good
            assertions ...
            but it's like it's a little misleading like seems like but anyway yeah people have that and



        it's

        really hard to um give people a framework

        for understanding when they should question these kind of dogmatic

        ideas

    I I actually don't know I all I know is I've been doing this for long enough that I just kind of have a sense

    of when I can get away with it and you know and then people kind of look at me and they're like Yeah but isn't 80

    better than 70 % test coverage you know and we'll have those arguments but I don't know man yeah it's this a huge

    problem I think ...:

        how do you know when this you know ideal is serving you or is actually hurting you?



    Hot takes

    ... do you have any other like last minute ...
    hot takes where you think the industry is just wrong about something
    or
    just a general Trend that you've seen that's just like counterintuitive or just not helpful at all?

    how do you feel about object-oriented programming?

        ... I'm one of these people who thinks that Go is a good programming language
        because it has fewer features
        and
        makes you think about your programs differently

        ... I actually think it is a it's a wonderful uh language for a large team to collaborate around




    it's a shame that the industry has not produced ... an alternative ...

        it's bad ... I think we should build Frameworks that offer a different set of trade-offs

        ... this tradeoff of it's either all in the same thing or it's in a million things and
        you have to like design it explicitly around these assumptions that it's all in a one monolith
        or it's always making Network calls a over place -
        I think it's terrible ...



        this industry like should produce new abstractions new Frameworks ...;
        I don't know exactly what they are;
        ... I'm actually working on one at Doordash that's not done yet
        and
        we'll see how well it works

        but you know it was a huge battle to try to get it funded because everyone's like but



        in general I want the industry to do better

            we should not have to pick between monolith and microservices

            there should there should be there should be something in between ...



    Programming Advice

    last question because
    I know people are going to want to know this so do you have any advice for other programmers that are listening to this maybe they're in college maybe they're

    working full-time and they kind of want to follow in your footsteps and get really good at application development backend development and you know

    architecture design what should they do? ...



        I got super lucky and in my career and that just I happened to be in the right place

        at some right times and you know met some people that gave me some opportunities


        ... I just - I don't know, man -
        I just write a lot of software



        ... I just don't [settle -] I'm not not satisfied ... when someone says
        "Ah here's this Library ... just use it";
        ... I always want to know what's in there



        ... I have a deep fear of dependencies ...;
        I don't like run other people's code unless it's really important;



        ... it's very hard to replicate luck but I I just think like if you if you care about your

        craft you care about like understanding like how stuff works and just like what

        good looks like and not necessarily getting sucked into these kind of

        dogmatic ideals like we were talking about you just like what like good is

        contextual based on what kind of project you're working on and I think it also evolves as the industry evolves technology involves ...

            figure out how stuff works;

            just ... make software better
