2025-09-21-22-29-15-UTC-plus-2-talk-by-catie-mccaffrey-about-applying-the-saga-pattern.txt



source:
    (
    yt
    >>
    GOTO Conferences
    >>
    Applying the Saga Pattern • Caitie McCaffrey • GOTO 2015
    )



transcript:

    ...

    serializability is a guarantee that things look like they sort of happen sequentially

    atomicity is this idea that it either all happened or it didn't

    Consistency is application-level consistency.
    It's not linearizability consistency
    but it's basically that our system is still in a valid state
        at the start of the transaction
        at the end of the transaction
            the system is in a valid state
        and ... whether the transaction completed or did not

    isolation is that these transactions do not affect each other if they are running concurrently


    durability is this idea that,
    once we've committed something,
    it persists and is long-lived and ... we don't lose data

    ...



    failure management

    I also really just like sagas as a whole
    because they're a failure management pattern 

    building distributed systems,
    we should just plan for everything to fail

        especially if you're in the cloud

        especially if you don't like own your own networks.

        Even if you own your own networks, you should plan for everything to fail.

    ...
    forcing your application developers
    to think about failure as ... the for first and foremost in your design pattern
    is going to help you build more robust systems
    and
    it's going to help you build ... less fragile systems
    because you don't just code the golden path...

        You actually are having to think about ... well what happens
        when we go off of the golden path

    ...

    Recap

    sagas are these long-lived distributed transactions
    and
    ... I think they're a really helpful way to think and design and program against

    you are trading off atomicity for availability.

        if you cannot tolerate seeing partial execution of the thing happening in the saga,
        then you can't do this.

        But in most cases, we can do this ... And then we can take corrective actions

        ... my skew in the world is towards highly available systems ... Games, ..., social media, stuff like that

    failure management pattern ...

        it helps you build more reliable and robust systems ... and less fragile systems

    ...
