2025-09-21-18-57-54-UTC-plus-2-2016-talk-by-martin-fowler-about-microservices.txt



source:
    (
    yt
    >>
    GOTO Conferences
    >>
    Microservices • Martin Fowler • YOW! 2016
    )



transcript:

    1. componentization via services

        component
        :=
        a piece which is
        independently replaceable
        and
        independently upgradeable

    2. organized around business capabilities

        talks about how we organize people
        (as opposed to anything else)

        keep the sizes of the teams small

        Amazon's notion of «a 2-pizza team»

        [each team] should be directly traveling through to the customer
        (= have some customer interaction directly in place)

            customer :=
            customer of the business
            or
            an end-user within the business

        so,
        it's not just the size, it's also this vertical nature

    3. products not projects

    4. smart endpoints and dumb pipes

        avoid smart middleware that's often called «ESB»
        ( := «Enterprise Service Bus» or «Egregious Spaghetti Box» )

        move the smarts out of the bus and into the systems themselves



        every service has got to do its own;
        the communication between them - we keep really simple:

            REST HTTP calls (and things of that kind)

            or,

            if you are using messaging, you just use a _simple_ messaging layer

    5. decentralized governance

    6. decentralized data management

        [data or] database or data storage is always private to a service

        if 2 separate services need to talk to each other,
        they talk to each other through «the service-collab protocols»
        and
        they talk through service endpoints

        you can actually share one physical relational database
        but
            they have to separate schemas
            and
            there are no links between the different schemas

            (all the linkage occurs through the services)

    7. infrastructure automation

        [will talk about that in a separate talk]

    8. design for failure

    9. evolutionary design

    ---

    Are Microservices just SOA (= Service-Oriented Architecture)?

        for some people who have experienced SOA,
        what SOA means to them _is_ Microservices

        for others, however,
        it means the «Egregious Spaghetti Box»

        the problem was that
        SOA itself never really had a very [universally accepted / precise] definition

    How Big?

        this is really about the people, not about the software

    One thing that's very important to realize is

        like most architectural techniques,
        [microservice architecture] is not the future of computing

    Microservices have costs and benefits

        benefits

            strong boundaries between your module / components

            indepedent deployment

            technology diversity

        costs

            distributed system

                this is not a card you want to play lightly

                communications

                    [monolith:]         fast, in-process method calls

                    [microservices:]    inter-process calls,
                                        which are going to be orders of magnitudes slower

                                        you start using techniques for asynchronous programming

                                        asynchronous software is really hard to debug

            eventual consistency

                no every service is going to be quite in tune with everything else

                extra complexity

            operational complexity

                people say, "the tools will solve it! Kubernetes! Docker!"

                it's still complexity compared to a monolith - you're taking on more stuff

    summary

        [fuzzy term, but bear with me]
        base complexity of a system
        :=
        not that much logic, not that much load on it

        for a system with a low base complexity,
        a monolith is better than microservices

        as base complexity rises,
        then microservices become more attractive

            and, again:
            one of the core things, I think, to look at is people

            if you've got 5 people,
            you probably don't need microservices

            if you need 50 people,
            well then you should be considering [microservices]

            if you're in hundreds of people,
            then you'll definitely need to break it up _somehow_
            (
            you can't have a single cohesive team of 500 people
            )



        so, «microservices» is not the best, compared to a monolith

        the choice between a monolith and microservices
        is
            an area with 2 obvious endpoints
            and
            a _very_ large grey band in between

            and
            you're gonna have to make a judgement call as to which way to go

        in particular,
        be very ware of using microservices in a domain you don't already know well

            in fact, one argument is to say:
            if you're building a new system,
            you should
                start with a monolith
                and
                expect to replace it with microservices later if you're lucky to run into the kinds of problems that raise up ... base complexity

            and that's - I think - fairly good advice

                even the people who will argue against it will say,
                "If you don't know your domain, microservices aren't a good place to start"

                b/c the problem is:

                    early on you don't know where the [strong module] boundaries are gonna be

                    so who knows if you're gonna get them right?

                    in a monolith,
                    you're better off because you can refactor things more easily across the boundaries



        one last thing:
        there are certain other skills you're gonna need if you're gonna be able to do the microservices thing at all

            provision your software rapidly

            good monitoring

            provision all your servers and stuff rapidly

            bring in this whole notion of DevOps

        (just to deploy half a dozen microservices, you need those capabilities)

        to get serious about microservices, you need a lot more:

            traceable business transactions

            continuous delivery

            product-centered teams

            multi-dev environment

            infrastructure as code



        the main thing to realize is that

            monoliths and microservices - it's a choice

            it's a choice that depends on
            the context that you're in
            (= the complexity of the application you're trying to do)

            and really the heart of it is the team organization:
            how do you want to organize people?

                when I talk to people who have used microservices from the beginning,
                that was the main driver

                (
                ...
                people always complain about silos
                but it's human nature to form silos
                ...
                what you want to do is to want to arrange things so that
                those silos are in the most productive manner possible

                and that is really what's driving a lot of interest in microservices
                )