2025-09-16-16-12-12-UTC-plus-2-ryan-peterman-resource-titled--david-fowler-_-intern-to-microsoft-distinguished-engineer-in-11-promotions-_-career-story.txt



source:
    (
    yt
    >>
    Ryan Peterman
    >>
    [David Fowler -] Intern to Microsoft Distinguished Engineer in 11 Promotions (Career Story)
    )



transcript:



Intro

...
This is David Fowler.
He got promoted 11 times from an intern to a distinguished engineer, all at Microsoft.
And I asked him about everything he learned along the way.



....



Microsoft culture after Satya

did you notice anything

internally like the culture shifting when Satya became CEO?

Huge. I mean, ... I always tell new hires that it's really hard to

think about the culture shift between Satya and Balmer because ... I lived it, right?

...

Probably one of the biggest ones that ... I noticed because I I experienced

this when I joined there was teams competing on the same end ... goal ...



I was like very early in career like

observing how people interacted and culture- wise and just the way people interacted changed

... meeting culture

like how means would would appear like emails things that seem so obvious in

hindsight

like if I look at how people would communicate in meetings now versus emails versus how I used to work

like remote friendliness versus like how people work in teams



like I I remember being in a meeting and someone raising

their hand on teams

and I was like, "raise your hand for talk ... what? this is not Microsoft!"
because ... I had grown up in a culture
where you would just talk right you just talk

    ...

    you wait for a pause and you talk[;] ...
    you don't raise your hand to talk ...



a lot more consideration for everyone else



it wasn't just what's it called um highest paid person's opinion

I think that's that's kind of how Microsoft felt like when I joined like if you were in a meeting with people

that are very senior um hard to get a worded sometimes and ... if the most the most senior person was loud

and like aggressive  ... people that didn't think that way in the moment would not get safe.



...
collaboration became a thing that was part of your review



...
the behaviors that were that were being modeled by like the leaders like literally in meetings,

people raising their hands, people calling people who haven't spoken. Like imagine if you're in a meeting and

there's someone really quiet that has really good thoughts, but maybe they don't they don't like to speak up in

meetings, pulling it out that person in in the meeting. Like I remember when that first happened, I had never seen it

before. I had never seen someone say, "Um, hey Ryan, you're quiet. You've been quiet the whole time. What's your

opinion on this matter?" ...



Now ... It's much better, much more considerate for others.
Um, a lot less people screamy, shouty.
I was in like really early in my career, people were like shouting.



When you look back on your your career so far, do you have any major regrets that people can learn from?

...
I would say early in my career, ... I was very arrogant.
.... I would say I was lacking some empathy in a bunch of different places.

One of the big shifts
that, I think, my brain made over time
[was]
learning how to
    build teams
    and
    [achieve] impact through others
was
[through[]] patience.
Patience, empathy.



... those two traits

helped help a lot with like growing teams and growing like influence and

people, right? It's not just because you're right.



Being right means nothing.



It's just not important, right? Being right is like one of many things. ...
I think learning over time that this ... doesn't really matter as much
because there's a lot of shades of gray when you're in [software engineering].

This is not the most important thing.



...
I have a lot more self-awareness now whenever that's not the most important thing for the for the moment, even

though it's like a thing still. I learned over time how to dial it.



Um, when you look back on your career, what was your work life balance like throughout?

    I used to answer this by saying um there was no balance.
    There was just like work hard, play hard kind of thing.

    I would say now someone told me recently that

        work life balance isn't about 9 to 5 and stopping.

        It's about what things give you energy and what things drain energy from you.



people always ask me

    hey what book did you read

    ... what did you do to become a good software engineer

and I'm like:
I wrote and read a lot of code,
like just anything you can get your hands on and there's so much more code.
No, there you can read, consume, and write.

    Um, and I'm not sure if it's good advice,

    but what I know is that I did not get good at software engineering or building building a programming, whatever you

    want to call it, from like seeing something online or reading a a blog

    post or it's like just do it.

    Like build everything. databases, distributed systems, games, ...
    every everything you build will teach you a new skill that you don't even know you have until later on.

    Um, my GitHub is a graveyard of projects.
    I just build stuff and put it on there.



    that pattern of ... "I need to know how this thing works" has served me ... to this day ...
